CHAPTERS 15 AND 16 OF THE GOSPEL OF MARK
This is a LibriVox recording.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Recording by Simon Wainwright
The Gospel of Mark Chapter 15
And straightway in the morning the chief priest held a consultation with the elders and the scribes and the whole council,
and bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him to Pilate.
And Pilate asked him, Art thou the king of the Jews?
And he answering said unto them, Thou sayest it.
And the chief priest accused him of many things, but he answered nothing.
And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answers thou nothing?
Behold, how many things they witness against thee!
But Jesus yet answered nothing, so that Pilate marveled.
Now at that feast he released unto them one prisoner, whom soever they desired.
And there was one named Barabbas, which lay bound with them, that had made insurrection against him,
who had committed murder in the insurrection.
And the multitude, crying aloud, began to desire him to do as he had ever done unto them.
But Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the king of the Jews?
For he knew that the chief priest had delivered him for envy.
But the chief priest moved the people, that he should rather release Barabbas unto them.
And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What will ye then that I shall do unto him whom ye call the king of the Jews?
And they cried out again, Crucify him.
Then Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done?
And they cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify him.
And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them,
and delivered Jesus when he had scourged him to be crucified.
And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetorium.
And they called together the whole band, and they clothed him with purple, and plaited a crown of thorns,
and put it upon his head, and began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews!
And they smote him on the head with a reed, and did spit upon him, and bowing their knees worshiped him.
And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple from him, and put his own clothes on him,
and led him out to crucify him.
And they compel one, Simon, a Serenian, who passed by, coming out of the country,
the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross.
And they bring him unto the place, Golgotha, which is being interpreted the place of a skull.
And they gave him to drink wine, mingled with myrrh, but he received it not.
And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots upon them,
what every man should take.
And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.
And the superscription of his accusation was written over the King of the Jews.
And with him they crucified two thieves, the one on his right hand, and the other on his left.
And the scripture was fulfilled which saith, and he was numbered with the transgressors.
And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads and saying,
Ah, thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days,
save thyself and come down from the cross.
Likewise also the chief priests, mocking, said among themselves with the scribes,
he saved others, himself he cannot save.
Let Christ the King of Israel descend now from the cross that we may see and believe.
And they that were crucified with him reviled him.
And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice saying,
Eloi, Eloi lama sabachthani, which is being interpreted,
My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
And some of them that stood by when they heard it said, Behold, he calleth Elias.
And one ran and filled a sponge full of vinegar and put it on a reed and gave him to drink,
saying, Let alone, let us see whether Elias will come to take him down.
And Jesus cried with a loud voice and gave up the ghost.
And the veil of the temple was rent entwined from the top to the bottom.
And when the centurion which stood over against him saw that he so cried out and gave up the ghost,
he said, Truly, this man was the Son of God.
There were also women looking on afar off, among whom was Mary Magdalene and Mary,
the mother of James, the less, and Jose's and Salome, who also when he was in Galilee followed
him and ministered unto him, and many other women which came up with him unto Jerusalem.
And now, when the even was come, because it was the preparation that is the day before the Sabbath,
Joseph of Aramaothea, an honorable counselor, which also waited for the kingdom of God,
came and went in boldly unto Pilate and craved the body of Jesus.
And Pilate marveled if he were already dead, and calling unto him the centurion,
he asked him whether he had been any while dead.
And when he knew it of the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.
And he bought fine linen and took him down and wrapped him in the linen, and laid him in a
rock, and rolled a stone on to the door of the sepulcher.
And Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Joseus, beheld where he was laid.
And when the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Salome,
had bought sweet spices that they might come and anoint him.
And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they came
unto the sepulcher at the rising of the sun. And they said among themselves,
Who shall roll away the stone from the door of the sepulcher?
And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away, for it was very great.
And entering into the sepulcher, they saw a young man sitting on the right side,
clothed in a long white garment, and they were affrighted.
And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted, ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified.
He is risen, he is not here. Behold the place where they laid him.
But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter, that he goeth before you into Galilee.
There shall ye see him, as he said unto you.
And they went out quickly and fled from the sepulcher, for they trembled and were amazed.
Neither said they anything to any man, for they were afraid.
Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week,
he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils.
And she went and told them that had been with him as they mourned and wept.
And they, when they heard that he was alive and had been seen of her, believed not.
After that he appeared in another form unto two of them, as they walked and went into the country.
And they went and told it unto the residue, neither believed they them.
Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meet, and upbraided them with their unbelief
and heartness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen him after he was risen.
And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.
He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved.
But he that believeth not shall be damned.
And these signs shall follow them that believe.
In my name shall they cast out devils. They shall speak with new tongues.
They shall take up serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them.
They shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.
So then, after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven and sat
on the right hand of God. And they went forth and preached everywhere the Lord,
working with them and confirming the word with signs following. Amen.
End of chapters 15 and 16. End of the Gospel of Mark, King James Version.
Recording by Simon Wainwright.